# Made with Sionna

We love to see how Sionna is used by other researchers! For this reason, you find below links to papers whose authors have also published Sionna-based simulation code.

## Community-made tools

### .
OpenStreetMap to Sionna Scene in Python
Manoj Kumar Joshi eleased in January 2024 and based on Sionna v0.15. [ View on GitHub](https://github.com/manoj-kumar-joshi/sionna_osm_scene)    
This Jupyter notebook shows how to create a Sionna scene (Mitsuba format) in Python code from OpenStreetMap data. Buildings are extruded and meshes for roads are created in a region specified by the user. It is an alternative to the Blender-based workflow presented [in this video](https://youtu.be/7xHLDxUaQ7c).

## List of Projects

If you want your paper and code be listed here, please send an email to [sionna@nvidia&#46;com](mailto:sionna&#37;&#52;&#48;nvidia&#46;com) with links to the paper (e.g., [arXiv](https://arxiv.org)) and code repository (e.g., [GitHub](https://github.com)).

### .
Graph Neural Networks for Enhanced Decoding of Quantum LDPC Codes
Anqi Gong, Sebastian Cammerer, Joseph M. Renes eleased in 2023 and based on Sionna v0.15. [ View on GitHub](https://github.com/gongaa/Feedback-GNN)    
In this work, we propose a fully differentiable iterative decoder for quantum low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes. The proposed algorithm is composed of classical belief propagation (BP) decoding stages and intermediate graph neural network (GNN) layers. Both component decoders are defined over the same sparse decoding graph enabling a seamless integration and scalability to large codes. The core idea is to use the GNN component between consecutive BP runs, so that the knowledge from the previous BP run, if stuck in a local minima caused by trapping sets or short cycles in the decoding graph, can be leveraged to better initialize the next BP run. By doing so, the proposed decoder can learn to compensate for sub-optimal BP decoding graphs that result from the design constraints of quantum LDPC codes. Since the entire decoder remains differentiable, gradient descent-based training is possible. We compare the error rate performance of the proposed decoder against various post-processing methods such as random perturbation, enhanced feedback, augmentation, and ordered-statistics decoding (OSD) and show that a carefully designed training process lowers the error-floor significantly. As a result, our proposed decoder outperforms the former three methods using significantly fewer post-processing attempts.Sionna RT: Differentiable Ray Tracing for Radio Propagation Modeling
Jakob Hoydis, Fayal At Aoudia, Sebastian Cammerer, Merlin Nimier-David, Nikolaus Binder, Guillermo Marcus, Alexander Keller eleased in 2023 and based on Sionna v0.16. [Run in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/NVlabs/diff-rt/blob/master/Learning_Materials.ipynb)    
Sionna is a GPU-accelerated open-source library for link-level simulations based on TensorFlow. Its latest release (v0.14) integrates a differentiable ray tracer (RT) for the simulation of radio wave propagation. This unique feature allows for the computation of gradients of the channel impulse response and other related quantities with respect to many system  and environment parameters, such as material properties, antenna patterns, array geometries, as well as transmitter and receiver orientations and positions. In this paper, we outline the key components of Sionna RT and showcase example applications such as learning of radio materials and optimizing transmitter orientations by gradient descent. While classic ray tracing is a crucial tool for 6G research topics like reconfigurable intelligent surfaces, integrated sensing and communications, as well as user localization, differentiable ray tracing is a key enabler for many novel and exciting research directions, for example, digital twins.DUIDD: Deep-Unfolded Interleaved Detection and Decoding for MIMO Wireless Systems
Reinhard Wiesmayr, Chris Dick, Jakob Hoydis, Christoph Studer eleased in 2022 and based on Sionna v0.11. [ View on GitHub](https://github.com/IIP-Group/DUIDD)    
Iterative detection and decoding (IDD) is known to achieve near-capacity performance in multi-antenna wireless systems. We propose deep-unfolded interleaved detection and decoding (DUIDD), a new paradigm that reduces the complexity of IDD while achieving even lower error rates. DUIDD interleaves the inner stages of the data detector and channel decoder, which expedites convergence and reduces complexity. Furthermore, DUIDD applies deep unfolding to automatically optimize algorithmic hyperparameters, soft-information exchange, message damping, and state forwarding. We demonstrate the efficacy of DUIDD using NVIDIA's Sionna link-level simulator in a 5G-near multi-user MIMO-OFDM wireless system with a novel low-complexity soft-input soft-output data detector, an optimized low-density parity-check decoder, and channel vectors from a commercial ray-tracer. Our results show that DUIDD outperforms classical IDD both in terms of block error rate and computational complexity.Bit Error and Block Error Rate Training for ML-Assisted Communication
Reinhard Wiesmayr, Gian Marti, Chris Dick, Haochuan Song, Christoph Studer eleased in 2022 and based on Sionna v0.11. [ View on GitHub](https://github.com/IIP-Group/BLER_Training)    
Even though machine learning (ML) techniques are being
widely used in communications, the question of how to train
communication systems has received surprisingly little
attention. In this paper, we show that the commonly used binary
cross-entropy (BCE) loss is a sensible choice in uncoded
systems, e.g., for training ML-assisted data detectors, but may
not be optimal in coded systems. We propose new loss functions
targeted at minimizing the block error rate and SNR deweighting,
a novel method that trains communication systems for optimal
performance over a range of signal-to-noise ratios. The utility
of the proposed loss functions as well as of SNR deweighting is
shown through simulations in NVIDIA Sionna.Graph Neural Networks for Channel Decoding
Sebastian Cammerer, Jakob Hoydis, Fayal At Aoudia, Alexander Keller eleased in 2022 and based on Sionna v0.11. [Run in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/NVlabs/gnn-decoder/blob/master/GNN_decoder_standalone.ipynb)    
We propose a fully differentiable graph neural network (GNN)-based architecture for channel decoding and showcase competitive decoding performance for various coding schemes, such as low-density parity-check (LDPC) and BCH codes. The idea is to let a neural network (NN) learn a generalized message passing algorithm over a given graph that represents the forward error correction code structure by replacing node and edge message updates with trainable functions.Deep Learning-Based Synchronization for Uplink NB-IoT
Fayal At Aoudia, Jakob Hoydis, Sebastian Cammerer, Matthijs Van Keirsbilck, Alexander Keller eleased in 2022 and based on Sionna v0.11. [ View on GitHub](https://github.com/NVlabs/nprach_synch)    
We propose a neural network (NN)-based algorithm for device detection and time of arrival (ToA) and carrier frequency offset (CFO) estimation for the narrowband physical random-access channel (NPRACH) of narrowband internet of things (NB-IoT). The introduced NN architecture leverages residual convolutional networks as well as knowledge of the preamble structure of the 5G New Radio (5G NR) specifications.We propose a neural network (NN)-based algorithm for device detection and time of arrival (ToA) and carrier frequency offset (CFO) estimation for the narrowband physical random-access channel (NPRACH) of narrowband internet of things (NB-IoT). The introduced NN architecture leverages residual convolutional networks as well as knowledge of the preamble structure of the 5G New Radio (5G NR) specifications.